NMS-16391: Added docs for IPFIX Telemetry (#7195)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/deep-dive/flows/scripting-adapter.adoc

[[ga-flow-support-scripting-adapter]]
= Scripting Adapter
:description: Learn how to use the NetFlow scripting adapters in {page-component-title} to process data of your devices.

Although the primary purpose of NetFlow and IPFIX is to analyze network flows, there are also cases where the collected data is to be analyzed in other ways.
One example would be the use of manufacturer-specific metrics with the help of IPFIX that are not flow-related.

> These metrics can be evaluated using the telemetry scripting adapters and, if necessary, persisted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These metrics can be evaluated using the telemetry scripting adapters and, if necessary, persisted as metrics.
```

For this to be possible, the {page-component-title} Telemetryd parsers must not only supply the flow-related data but also all other values.

== Enabling Raw Messages

> Each parser entry allows the definition of additional parameters.
> The `includeRawMessage` parameter allows to send not only flow-related fields but also all of the collected data to their corresponding adapters.
> The following example shows a snippet of the `telemetryd-configuration.xml` file where `includeRawMessage` is enabled for the IPFIX parser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `includeRawMessage` parameter configures a parser to send the unprocessed flow values to the corresponding adapters. 
The following example shows a snippet of the `telemetryd-configuration.xml` file where `includeRawMessage` is enabled for the IPFIX parser.
```

            <package name="IPFIX-Default">
                <rrd step="300">
                    <rra>RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:1:2016</rra>
                    <rra>RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:12:1488</rra>
                    <rra>RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:288:366</rra>
                    <rra>RRA:MAX:0.5:288:366</rra>
                    <rra>RRA:MIN:0.5:288:366</rra>
                </rrd>
            </package>
        </adapter>

        <adapter name="IPFIX-Telemetry" class-name="org.opennms.netmgt.telemetry.protocols.netflow.adapter.ipfix.IpFixTelemetryAdapter" enabled="true">
            <parameter key="script" value="/opt/opennms/etc/telemetryd-adapters/netflow-telemetry.groovy"/>
            <package name="IPFIX-Default">
                <rrd step="300">
                    <rra>RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:1:2016</rra>
                    <rra>RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:12:1488</rra>
                    <rra>RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:288:366</rra>
                    <rra>RRA:MAX:0.5:288:366</rra>
                    <rra>RRA:MIN:0.5:288:366</rra>
                </rrd>
            </package>
        </adapter>
    </queue>
...
----

== Example script

The following example shows how to add a custom metric to the node-level resource.

> The raw message is passed as a simple key-value-map to the script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The raw message is passed as a key-value-map to the script.
```
